---
title: ESP8266 and Micropython
date: 2018-03-06 23:44:11
tags: ESP8266, Micropython, Python
---

In traditional "cheap electronics" fashion, the unit i've purchased is verbosely marketed on [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B010N1SPRK) as 

>HiLetgo 2pcs ESP8266 NodeMCU LUA CP2102 ESP-12E Internet WIFI Development Board Open source Serial Wireless Module Works Great with Arduino IDE/Micropython

In more helpful terms:

* __ESP-12E__ is the SMT module on the board, which consists of an ESP8266 MCU
* __CP2102__ is the USB to UART chip on the board
* __NodeMCU__ is the firmware that comes on the board, which contains and embedded LUA interpreter

## Flashing MicroPython

The tutorials on the MicroPython site list a flashing command similar to the one below.  However, those commands did not work for me.  A helpful Amazon reviewer pointed out setting `--flash_mode dio` is required in order to correctly flash this particular board.  

Reportedly it is also important to erase the flash before writing a new image.  This overwrites all blocks with __0xFF__ bytes.

```
esptool.py --port /dev/ttyUSB0 --baud 115200 erase_flash
esptool.py --port /dev/ttyUSB0 --baud 115200 write_flash --flash_size=detect --flash_mode dio 0 esp8266-20171101-v1.9.3.bin
```

After flashing is complete, open the serial REPL:

```
screen /dev/ttyUSB0 115200
```

Or access the REPL through the python app _rshell_:

```
pip3 install rshell
rshell -p /dev/ttyUSB0 -b 115200 repl
```

### Micropython REPL Keyboard Shortcuts

Once in the REPL, there are a number of useful keyboard shortcuts:

* _Ctrl-A_ on a blank line will enter raw REPL mode. This is like a permanent paste mode, except that characters are not echoed back.
* _Ctrl-B_ on a blank like goes to normal REPL mode.
* _Ctrl-C_ cancels any input, or interrupts the currently running code.
* _Ctrl-D_ on a blank line will do a soft reset.